# Questions and hypotheses

## 1. What is the current pattern of herbicide resistances across Southeast (SE) Australia?

- We hypothesise significant variation in the patterns of herbicide resistance traits across the landscape because of the variation in selection forces, i.e. diverse herbicide application histories, and climatic conditions.
- We also hypothesise some significant positive correlation between herbicide resistance traits because regardless of herbicide targets these xenobiotics result in oxidative stress which can be controlled/mitigated through a common detoxification process.
- Furthermore, we hypothesise that we can build robust **environmental phenomic models**, i.e. models of herbicide resistance traits using geographic location, climatic, edaphic, and correlated herbicide resistance trait predictors.
- We can also build reasonably well-performing **genomic prediction models** using population-level genomic data, i.e. pool sequencing data.
- We can then combine these two model types to get better landscape-scale resistance predictions, i.e. desparsify or predict missing herbicide resistance traits for use in the **environmental phenomic models**.
- We can further improve these models by accounting for functional genomic information, i.e. performing GWAS at the population level accounting for population structure, followed by the identification of putative causal genes.
- Using these putative genes we can build better **genomic prediction models** thereby improving the **environmental phenomic models** which we are most interested in to infer the past and future patterns of herbicide resistance in the landscape.

## 2. How did the current pattern of herbicide resistances across SE Australia come about?

- We can then infer the **past trajectory of herbicide resistance evolution** using the identified herbicide resistance-associated genes and the current observed ressitance pattern through approximate Bayesian Computation (ABC).

## 3. What will be the future pattern of herbicide resistance

- Finally, using these environmental and genomic prediction models, the likely evolutionary paths and various set of forecasted climatic conditions and future herbicide application, we can predicted a number of possible future patterns of herbicide resistance across SE Australia.


## Setup

```shell
cargo install poolgen
```

